.\" Copyright 2015-2022 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright 2014-2015 Howard Chu, Symas Corp. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.TH MDBX_DUMP 1 "2022-08-24" "MDBX 0.12.1"
.SH NAME
mdbx_dump \- MDBX environment export tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdbx_dump
[\c
.BR \-V ]
[\c
.BR \-q ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-l ]
[\c
.BR \-p ]
[\c
.BR \-a \ |
.BI \-s \ subdb\fR]
[\c
.BR \-r ]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
.BR \ dbpath
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mdbx_dump
utility reads a database and writes its contents to the
standard output using a portable flat-text format
understood by the
.BR mdbx_load (1)
utility.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.TP
.BR \-q
Be quiet.
.TP
.BR \-f \ file
Write to the specified file instead of to the standard output.
.TP
.BR \-l
List the databases stored in the environment. Just the
names will be listed, no data will be output.
.TP
.BR \-p
If characters in either the key or data items are printing characters (as
defined by isprint(3)), output them directly. This option permits users to
use standard text editors and tools to modify the contents of databases.

Note: different systems may have different notions about what characters
are considered printing characters, and databases dumped in this manner may
be less portable to external systems.
.TP
.BR \-a
Dump all of the subdatabases in the environment.
.TP
.BR \-s \ subdb
Dump a specific subdatabase. If no database is specified, only the main database is dumped.
.TP
.BR \-r
Rescure mode. Ignore some errors to dump corrupted DB.
.TP
.BR \-n
Dump an MDBX database which does not use subdirectories.
This is legacy option. For now MDBX handles this automatically.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.
Errors result in a non-zero exit status and
a diagnostic message being written to standard error.

Dumping and reloading databases that use user-defined comparison functions
will result in new databases that use the default comparison functions.
\fBIn this case it is quite likely that the reloaded database will be
damaged beyond repair permitting neither record storage nor retrieval.\fP

The only available workaround is to modify the source for the
.BR mdbx_load (1)
utility to load the database using the correct comparison functions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mdbx_load (1),
.BR mdbx_copy (1),
.BR mdbx_chk (1),
.BR mdbx_stat (1)
.BR mdbx_drop (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Howard Chu of Symas Corporation <http://www.symas.com>,
Leonid Yuriev <https://gitflic.ru/user/erthink>
