.\" Copyright 2015-2023 Leonid Yuriev <leo@yuriev.ru>.
.\" Copyright 2015,2016 Peter-Service R&D LLC <http://billing.ru/>.
.\" Copyright 2012-2015 Howard Chu, Symas Corp. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.TH MDBX_STAT 1 "2023-04-29" "MDBX 0.12.6"
.SH NAME
mdbx_stat \- MDBX environment status tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdbx_stat
[\c
.BR \-V ]
[\c
.BR \-q ]
[\c
.BR \-p ]
[\c
.BR \-e ]
[\c
.BR \-f [ f [ f ]]]
[\c
.BR \-r [ r ]]
[\c
.BR \-a \ |
.BI \-s \ subdb\fR]
.BR \ dbpath
[\c
.BR \-n ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mdbx_stat
utility displays the status of an MDBX environment.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.TP
.BR \-q
Be quiet.
.TP
.BR \-p
Display overall statistics of page operations of all (running, completed
and aborted) transactions in the current multi-process session (since the
first process opened the database after everyone had previously closed it).
.TP
.BR \-e
Display information about the database environment.
.TP
.BR \-f
Display information about the environment GC.
If \fB\-ff\fP is given, summarize each GC/freelist entry.
If \fB\-fff\fP is given, display the full list of page IDs in the GC/freelist.
.TP
.BR \-r
Display information about the environment reader table.
Shows the process ID, thread ID, and transaction ID for each active
reader slot. The process ID and transaction ID are in decimal, the
thread ID is in hexadecimal. The transaction ID is displayed as "-"
if the reader does not currently have a read transaction open.
If \fB\-rr\fP is given, check for stale entries in the reader
table and clear them. The reader table will be printed again
after the check is performed.
.TP
.BR \-a
Display the status of all of the subdatabases in the environment.
.TP
.BR \-s \ subdb
Display the status of a specific subdatabase.
.TP
.BR \-n
Display the status of an MDBX database which does not use subdirectories.
This is legacy option. For now MDBX handles this automatically
for existing databases, but may be required while creating new.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.
Errors result in a non-zero exit status and
a diagnostic message being written to standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mdbx_chk (1),
.BR mdbx_copy (1),
.BR mdbx_dump (1),
.BR mdbx_load (1)
.BR mdbx_drop (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Howard Chu of Symas Corporation <http://www.symas.com>,
Leonid Yuriev <https://gitflic.ru/user/erthink>
